---
layout: post
title:  "My Journey from Atoms to Bits"
date:   2022-11-01 13:00:00
published: true
permalink: /atoms2bits
image: /assets/article_images/2014-08-29-welcome-to-jekyll/desktop.JPG
---

The year is 2020. After what had been a tumultuous twelve months, I finally made up my mind to focus my career efforts elsewhere. It wouldn’t be the first time I changed directions. I moved to the US to become a pilot and ended up spending 10 years in the earth sciences — geology then petrophysics.  

~atoms to bits img~

Being stuck at home for months on end came with enough challenges, but it was a great time for introspection. I wasn’t certain what I wanted to do, but I was clear on what I didn’t want anymore. Slowness, bureaucracy, lack of innovation, monotony. In fact, I thought the subsurface work we were doing could use two-thirds fewer people if we focused on automating some core tasks.  

I made up my mind to leave. One problem though, where to this time?  

I considered the usual oil and gas exit routes—banking and consulting—but both of them ticked boxes I was trying to avoid.  

Then I realized the answer was in all the exploration I was doing in my free time. I was always interested in how things got built and how they worked. Naturally, I found myself spending a lot of my time immersed in the history of the technologies that power our everyday life. From electricity to the telegraph and telephone, to computers and the internet. A few things they had in common stood out to me.  

**Ubiquity**  

~code in nature img \composed of elements described below\~  

[Morse code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morse_code) encodes text characters using a combination of long and short signals.  

Librarians use the [Dewey decimal system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dewey_Decimal_Classification) to organize and retireve items in their collections.  

Early computers were operated using the [punch card](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punched_card).  

Modern computer systems use [binary](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_code) to encode instructions and data.  

Elements are classified into periods and groups by the [periodic table](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Periodic_table). These periods and groups describe their atomic size, metallic character, electron size, and valency.  

Most civilizations tell the time of year using solar- or lunar-based calendars.  

The [decimal number system](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal) is used to describe quantities.  

Languages encode information for oral or written communication.  

Code is everywhere.  


**Composability**

> Software is executable thought
  
Any information that can be represented by a finite set of primitives (symbols) can be recomposed.  

Computers perform [addition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Adder_(electronics)) using a series of electrical switches (XOR, AND, & OR) to handle summation and overflow. The recomposition of these primitives allows for the computation of subtractions and multiplications.  

~gif~  

Telegraphy is a composition of signals transmitted using visual, auditory, or electrical means.  

~gif~  

The internet is a composition of networked computers interacting using a series of protocols. DNS, FTP, HTTP/S, IMAP, IRC, LDAP, POP, PTP, RTP, SIP, SMTP, SSH, TLS/SSL, TOR, and many others.  

~online service highlighting protocols used~  

Genetic code is borne of a combination of 4 nucleotide bases. DNA is the most complex program. These primitives are responsible for the unique cellular expressions of the over 100 billion humans that have ever lived.  

~dna image??~  

_**Notes**_
1. American innovations
2. Hacking
3. Aristotle invented the Computer
4. what cultures don't use solar or lunar calendars? if none, fix calendars above
