---
layout: post
title:  "My Journey from Atoms to Bits"
date:   2022-12-01 13:00:00
published: false
permalink: /atoms2bits
image: /assets/article_images/2014-08-29-welcome-to-jekyll/desktop.JPG
---

The year is 2020. After what had been a tumultuous twelve months, I finally made up my mind to focus my career efforts elsewhere. It wouldn’t be the first time I changed directions. I moved to the US to become a pilot and ended up spending 10 years in the earth sciences — geology then petrophysics.  

~atoms to bits img~

Being stuck at home for months on end came with enough challenges, but it was a great time for introspection. I wasn’t certain what I wanted to do, but I was clear on what I didn’t want anymore. Slowness, bureaucracy, lack of innovation, monotony. In fact, I thought the subsurface work we were doing could use two-thirds fewer people if we focused on automating some core tasks.  

I made up my mind to leave. One problem though, where to this time?  

I considered the usual oil and gas exit routes—banking and consulting—but both of them ticked boxes I was trying to avoid.  

Then I realized the answer was in all the exploration I was doing in my free time. I was always interested in how things got built and how they worked. Naturally, I found myself spending a lot of my time immersed in the history of the technologies that power our everyday life. From electricity to the telegraph and telephone, to computers and the internet. A few things they had in common stood out to me:  

[1] American innovations
[2] Hacking
